All right, let's talk about JavaScript VM,
which stands for
virtual machine under the hood.
What I wanted to really get here on is
basically how do JavaScript virtual
machines work?
Right, there's the physical machine
of a computer, the silicon, and
there is the virtual machine of
what JavaScript provides, and
there's a big chasm between the two, and
so how do exactly do we bridge this?
And the bridging of the two chasms
actually has implications about
performance.
And so we're actually gonna
talk about performance.
And my hope is that if I explain
to you how physical machines work,
then you're gonna be able to kind
of derive in your head of like,
I understand now why this is slower.
This is not performing,
because they'll totally make sense as
to what has to happen under the hood.
So this is really what
I'm gonna talk about.
So first little bit about me.
So hi, I'm Miško Hevery.
I'm a CTO at Builder IO.
Builder Io does this cool,
headless visual CMS system.
In the past,
I created this thing called AngularJS.
Angular and
now I work on this thing called Quick.
Quick is a new kind of framework that
really focuses on a time to interactivity,
get the applications going
as fast as possible and
we do this by really
cleverly not doing anything.
Basically we try too hard
to not download the code,
not execute the code, and do nothing.
So the thing we're gonna talk about
today is I had all of these posts
that I put on Twitter, X,
I don't know what you call it these days,
things that show off weird
things in JavaScript.
Things like, hey,
did you know that triple equals can be
15 times slower than double equals?
That seems crazy, right?
Did you know that, like, a plus b, but
then b plus a can actually have
different performance characteristics?
What?
That makes no sense.
Why would that be?
Another one, my favorite one,
is that, negative x and
0 minus x can actually have,
10x slowdown in Firefox.
And so you really are starting to wonder
like is JavaScript just kind of messed up?
Is it just like fundamentally broken?
And I think a lot of these things just
make total sense once you understand
what's actually happening under the hood.
The other one I have over there
is that JSX, could have been,
how many times faster?
I forget,
I think twice as fast if we could just use
arrays instead of object literals for
storing things.
And my absolute favorite is
the anamorphism which the difference
between anamorphic read and
a megamorphic read can be 60 times.
So, you better know why these things
are happening, what exactly is going
on under the hood, and how to prevent
these things because they can have a huge
impact in terms of the performance
of the code that is running.
So, what I wanna talk to you today about
is kind of we're gonna start with talking
about the virtual machines,
what they do, how do they work?
And really, it really helps to talk about
the CPU first, how does the CPU work?
Which is the physical machine, right?
The actual hardware that we have is
the CPU and CPU runs instructions and
how exactly does the CPU's work
really dictate everything else.
And then we're gonna talk
about virtual machines, and
mainly how virtual machines create things
that don't exist in a physical world.
So array, objects, functions,
function calls, classes,
prototypes, all of these things
that we take for granted as part of
the JavaScript virtual machine,
they don't exist in physical hardware.
And so the job of the VM is to
create these things, right?
The job of the VM is to create the
illusion that we have these higher-order
concepts, they don't actually
exist inside of the hardware.
And once you understand the hardware and
you understand how the VM
creates these concepts,
then many of these bizarre things in terms
of performance become totally obvious.
Of course, this is why this is so
much slower because this is what the VM
actually has to do under the hood.
And then I'm gonna show
you a DeoptExplorer,
which is a way of running code in in V8,
in the special set of flags
that collects all of this kind
of internals of the framework,
of the virtual machine, so
not the framework the virtual machine.
And it saves it in the log file and
then the DeoptExplorer is a project by
Microsoft that takes this log file,
which is kind of human readable, but not
really, and gives you a nice GUI over it.
So you can go and
explore what's going on and
you can actually see many of these
things that are going on inside of it.
And then I'm gonna go through a couple
of main things that happen in JavaScript
mainly deopting, what is it, why does it
happen, what are the consequences of it?
Megamorphism and inline caching,
which deal with properties.
We're gonna talk about a little bit
of a holey arrays, in other words,
arrays which have holes in it.
And we're gonna leave it
off with double equals and
triple equals to kind of finish it off.